---
layout: week_layout
title: Course introduction and replication
week_num: 1
session_date: 08/25/2022
description:
due: <a href="/week/w1/#after-class">Review Standard Tests; Prepare articles for replications</a>
---

---
# Key points
---

- For all students:
	- Overview of empirical social science research {% cite RaginWhatNotSocial2011 %}
	- Purposes of social science research {% cite RaginGoalsSocialResearch2011 %}
<br>
- For students who want to [**_Early-Pass_** the Standard Test - Quantitative](/test_quant/), the following readings are also required.
	- What is "reproducibility" and why it is important {% cite FreeseReplicationSocialScience2017 PedersenRNICEModelEvaluating2018 %}
	- Typology of replication studies {% cite FreeseReplicationSocialScience2017 %}

<br>

---
# Before class
---

## Required readings

{% bibliography --cited %}

## Recommended readings for [Early-Pass](/test_quant/)

- {% reference ChristensenTransparencyReproducibilityCredibility2018 %}
- {% reference WalkerReplicationexperimentsknowledge2017 %}
- {% reference DuvendackReplicationquantitativework2013 %}
- {% reference TsangReplicationTheoryDevelopment1999 %}

## Inspiring video

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/arj7oStGLkU" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

<br>

---
# In class
---

- Course introduction: websites, Canvas, and other tools/platforms for this class (1h)
- Review Standard Tests (40 mins)
	- [Quantitative](https://amgps.jima.me/test_quant/)
	- [Qualitative](https://amgps.jima.me/test_qual/)
- Key concepts and frameworks (15 mins)
- [Week 1 Q&A](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1NzLq6amkq99BjbRk24eKve4v9EAES0JJLnSHM0498UI/edit?usp=sharing) (30 mins)

<br>

---
# After class
---

## Prepare articles for replications

Start to choose the article for the replication project. Prepare either ONE of the following items OR all the items for sharing next week. The general idea of this task is to push you to start--"Rome wasn't built in a day."

- An oral introduction about your replication interests, directions, and methods, etc.
- An oral introduction about the article(s) you may choose, why you choose them, and your replication plan.
- A short rough presentation about your replication plan.

_This after-class activity is NOT for grading, just for in-class sharing and discussion. This activity helps you prepare the replication plan, but it is NOT the replication plan. The articles you select are tentative. You can do it either individually or in a group. If you do this activity in a group, this activity helps you form a group, but the group may NOT be the final group for the replication project._

## Complete the [Pre-course survey](https://utexas.instructure.com/courses/1338983/quizzes/1705746)